Added a git guide for new members (#54)
NUbots/NUbook: src/book/03-guides/04-general/01-git.mdx

---
section: Guides
chapter: General
title: Git
description: Contributing to a NUbots project with git.
slug: /guides/general/git
---

## Prerequisites

This guide assumes you know a few basic shell commands, and the basics of git, such as adding, committing, and pushing to a repository.

## Getting Code Into a Repository

Let's suppose you have created a file which you would like to add to a NUbots repository called `MakeRobotStand.cpp`, which is part of your project to make the robot stand up.

In the terminal, change directory to the location where the repository is cloned.

### Select Branch

If you are working within an existing project, then you need to find out which branch the work is on. To list the branches, use the command `git branch -r`. When you have found the branch you want to push to, swap to it using the following command:

```sh
git checkout <branch name>
```

Where `<branch name>` corresponds to the branch you found in the last step.

> If you are not working on an existing project, you need to make a branch to commit your changes to. The format for branch names is `surname/project_name`. So for this example it could be `citizen/stand_up`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are not working on an existing project, you need to make a branch to commit your changes to. The format for branch names is `your_surname/brief_description_of_project`. So if your surname is Hamiltons, and your project is making the robot stand up, a good branch name would be `hamiltons/stand_up`.
```

Author: Are we usually using real people's names in examples in NUbook?

Reviewer: Yep :P

Author: I dunno, it just seemed kinda like, who on Earth would be named Hamiltons anyway??? stupid name :laughing:

### Making a Pull Request

Once you have a set of commits on your branch which you think should be added to the main codebase, you can make a Pull Request (PR). PRs are where users ask the repository to pull their branch into the `master` branch.

> GitHub has documentation about PRs [here.](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request)

Reviewer: Make links describe what they're pointing to:

```suggestion
GitHub has [documentation about PRs here](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request).
```

> Github has documentation about PRs [here.](#https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
GitHub has documentation about PRs [here.](https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request)
```

Title your PR with a description of the changes that it will make. For this example we could use `Add stand-up script`. If you need to give more detail about what the code does, put that as a comment.

To be approved, you should add reviewers to the pull request. If you have a project mentor, they should be a reviewer, as well as someone else who knows about that part of the codebase. Once the reviewers have approved the changes, the changes can be merged into the master branch.

### Code Review

The reviewers will give constructive feedback about your code, by making comments on code snippets from your changes. You can respond to these on GitHub. They can also directly suggest changes to specific sections. Additional commits you make to the branch will update the PR and will reset reviews of the changed sections.

> Once all of the comments are resolved, the reviewers have approved the PR, and the build checks have passed (see [_Formatting and Buildkite Checks_](#formatting-and-buildkite-checks)), you can `Squash and Merge`. Squashing removes detailed commit descriptions, so that `master` is not messy with every commit ever. Once the code has been squashed and merged, it is in the codebase and you have succeeded in contributing code to NUbots.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once all of the comments are resolved, the reviewers have approved the PR, and the build checks have passed (see [_Formatting and Buildkite Checks_](#formatting-and-buildkite-checks)), you can `Squash and Merge`. Squashing removes detailed commit descriptions so that the `master` branch history is clean and easy to follow. Once the code has been squashed and merged, it is in the codebase and you have succeeded in contributing code to NUbots.
```

> Once all of the comments are resolved, the reviewers have approved the PR, and the build checks have passed (see [_Formatting and Buildkite Checks_](#formatting-and-buildkite-checks)), you can `Squash and Merge`. Squashing removes detailed commit descriptions so that the `master` branch history is clean and easy to follow. Once the code has been squashed and merged, it is in the codebase and you have succeeded in contributing code to NUbots.

Reviewer: Not code 😛 + wording

```suggestion
Once all of the comments are resolved, the reviewers have approved the PR, and the build checks have passed (see [_Formatting and Buildkite Checks_](#formatting-and-buildkite-checks)), you can **Squash and Merge**. Squashing combines every commit on the PR into a single commit so that the `master` branch history is clean and easy to follow. Once the code has been squashed and merged, it is in the codebase and you have succeeded in contributing code to NUbots.
```

## Commit Etiquette

> Commits should make minor changes, and the changes in each commit should have a common theme. A general mantra for contributing code is `commit often, push once`, but this isn't strict at all. Committing often means that the code is built up incrementally. Pushing once means that you don't spam all the other contributors with notifications.

Author: hahaha fair enough, I just like that style of emphasis :p

## Formatting and Buildkite Checks

Before making a pull request, it is important that your code adheres to the formatting rules. For branches in the NUbots repo, running `./b format` before your last commit should fix formatting issues. Code in the NUbook repo must be formatted with `yarn format` before it can be committed. For NUsight code, use `yarn eslint` to find problems, and `yarn eslint:fix` to fix them.

If your code is in a different repository and it uses C++ or protobuf files, use the `.clang-format` file in the NUbots repo to format them.

If you get a message that your build failed, try running the relevant format commands and then committing any format changes. You won't be able to merge the PR until the build checks pass.

## Work in Progress PRs

> If you have an incomplete project you would like feedback on, you can make a draft PR to get your code reviewed. Prepend `[WIP]` to the PR title when making draft pull requests. Draft PRs cannot be merged, so there is no need to worry about merging in bad code. GitHub has documentation about draft PRs [here.](#https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/about-pull-requests#draft-pull-requests)

Reviewer: Make links describe what they're pointing to:

```suggestion
If you have an incomplete project you would like feedback on, you can make a draft PR to get your code reviewed. Prepend `[WIP]` to the PR title when making draft pull requests. Draft PRs cannot be merged, so there is no need to worry about merging in bad code. GitHub has [documentation about draft PRs here](#https://help.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-issues-and-pull-requests/about-pull-requests#draft-pull-requests).
```
